2.1. ECU0 – Monitoring
? Sensor functionality:
? Light sensor: The light value received by the photo resistor connected to this board should be sent to the bus.
? Door sensors: Two switches should represent sensors included in the doors. One switch for the left door and another switch for the right door. If the doors are opened, a logical ‘0’ should be written to the bus. A logical ‘1’ should signalize that the door is closed.
? ECU functionality:
? This ECU receives the fuel level and the engine coolant temperature. If the fuel level reaches 1/10th of the maximum a signal should be written to the bus. If the coolant temperature reaches 9/10th of the maximum another warning signal written to the bus.
? Moreover it must check if ECU1 – Stability Control is present. If ECU1 is not present LED7 should periodically blink. Additionally an error message must be sent.
2.2. ECU1 – Stability Control
? Sensor functionality:
? RPM: The potentiometer of this ECU should be used to read the RPM value. This value must be sent to the bus. Note: The value received by the potentiometer is 1/10th of the actual RPM. So a value of 410 would be 4100 RPM.
? Gear sensor: Two buttons on this ECU should be used as gear sensors. One button should indicate that the user shifted up. The other button is for down shifting. In every case a signal including the gear should be sent to the bus. Note: Let’s assume a 6-gear sequential manual transmission is used. At start up the gearbox is always in neutral (N). The 6-gear transmission should have the following gears: R – reverse, N – neutral, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. One byte should be used to send the data. Every bit in this byte represents one gear. So the reverse gear should be represented by ‘0b00000001’. The neutral gear is represented by ‘0b00000010’ and so on.
? ECU functionality:
? The Stability Control receives the speed of the drive wheels and the speed of the non-driven wheels. If the speed difference is bigger than 15 km/h a signal should be sent to the bus.
ASE Practical: Experiment 3
4
? Moreover it must check if ECU2 – Light Control is present. If ECU2 is not present LED7 should periodically blink. Additionally an error message must be sent.
2.3. ECU2 – Light Control
? Sensor functionality:
? Speed of non-driven wheels: The potentiometer should be used to determine the speed of the non-driven wheels. This value must be sent to the bus. Additionally the potentiometer value must be mapped to a value between 0 and 300.
? Light mode switch: A switch on this ECU should be used as mode switch. The mode switch toggles between the manual and the automatic light mode on this ECU.
? ECU functionality:
? This ECU implements two modes. The first mode is the manual mode. In manual mode the ECU receives 6 signals which represent different light states. Each state switches a light on or off. A logical ‘0’ received means the light is switched on. A logical ‘1’ should switch off a light.
? In automatic mode the low beam and the parking light should be switched on automatically if the light value falls below 512. The message with ID 0x101 holds the light value.
? Moreover it must check if ECU3 – Door Control is present. If ECU3 is not present LED7 should periodically blink. Additionally an error message must be sent.
2.4. ECU3 – Door Control
? Sensor functionality:
? Fuel level: The potentiometer is used to represent the fuel level of the car. It should be sent to the bus.
? Indicator switches: 3 switches should be used to control the state of the indicators. There should be a switch for the left and right indicator, and the last switch should be used for the hazard light (left and right indicator at the same time). Note: To signalize that an indicator is switched on a logical ‘0’ should be sent. If it is switched off a logical ‘1’ must be sent.
? ECU functionality:
? This ECU receives the speed of the car and the state of the doors. The state of the doors must be sent to the bus. If the car moves faster than 5 km/h and a door is opened a warning signal should be sent additionally.
? Moreover it must check if ECU4 – Engine Control is present. If ECU4 is not present LED7 should periodically blink. Additionally an error message must be sent.
2.5. ECU4 – Engine Control
? Sensor functionality:
? Engine coolant temperature: The potentiometer should be used to determine the engine coolant temperature and must be sent to the bus.
? Headlight switches: 3 switches should be used as headlight switches. One switch is used as high beam switch, another one as low beam switch, and the third one as switch for the parking light. A logical ‘0’ sent means the corresponding light is switched on and a logical ‘1’ should be sent if the light is switched off.